In the last lecture we added our text input,
that's great but we can definitely improve the styling of it
so let's do that. First of all, let me add a placeholder so that we can give the user an idea about which
input we expect and we can define the placeholder property here on the text
input, you can always check this in the documentation,
if you scroll down you will see that we eventually got this placeholder prop in there, here.
So let's do this, let's add placeholder and let's maybe set this to an awesome place as a string, if we
now save this and we go back, should reload
the app, let's also turn on life reloading additionally to hot reloading on the Android app and reload
manually this first time
and now we see an awesome place.
Now the next thing I want to do is I want to make sure that this input actually sits on the top of the
page and that we don't have this ugly border around it
but some other style.
So we got two goals,
we want to move this to the top of the page and get rid of the border, well getting rid of the border is simple of
course, we just remove border width and border color
but how do we float this text input up to the top of the page?
For this we have to understand how we position elements in our view or in general, in react native apps.
It uses a concept called flexbox,
let's see how that works. In a flexbox system which react native uses and which is very similar to
the css flexbox system, though it has some differences but in such a system, the layout is defined
by two axis,
so we get the main axis and the cross axis. The main axis, so in which direction points is defined by your flex
direction element here,
it's set to column which means from top to bottom,
so the main axis is exactly that, the top to bottom axis and the cross axis is the other axis then automatically.
Then you've got three other
key properties you use when setting up flexbox and again, always keep in mind, react native doesn't
really support css,
I'll come back to this later in the course, it emulates css properties though, at least some of them
and it does support the flex once, though always without the dash between the different words,
so justify content becomes one word with a capital C in content but it supports these and they work
the same as they do in css flexbox.
So here we set flex direction to column, justify content flex start then means start at the top or at
the beginning of your main axis, so justify content defines how the elements are positioned on the main
axis,
in this case that's from top to bottom because the direction is column. Align items defines how the
elements are positioned on the cross axis,
in this case that is from left to right and flex start means position them at the beginning of the
axis too,
that is why we end up with this layout.
Now flex one simply refers to how much the element and here, the element is not one of these orange boxes
but the entire container,
so how much the element should stretch out,
how much space it should occupy
and this is actually a relative value.
If you got two flex elements sitting next to each other and both have a flex value of one, they will actually
distribute the available space evenly so 50/50,
if you got two to one, then one will take up two-thirds, the other one will take one third.
This is how this works
and no worries,
we'll use that throughout the course
so this will become much clearer.
Now what you can do with that is you can of course switch from flex direction column to row and then
the axis is switched
and therefore we would end up with this layout where we now position the elements in the flex container
in a row instead of in a column.
And we can of course also change the values of justify content and align items,
if we set justify content to space between,
that's one of the available values,
you can check out the css flexbox guides to learn about all possible values,
so if we use space between, then they will distribute the available space,
they being the elements in the flex container. They will distribute the available space in the flex container
and keep an equal distance from each other.
If we would switch back to column, this would happen over the column instead of the row
and if we would set align items to center, then we would also position them in the middle of the cross
axis,
notice that we're back to flex direction row here.
So this is how flexbox works in react native
and we will use it a lot,
so incase that is not entirely clear,
no worries we'll get there.
So our goal is to position the text input at the top
and for this, we have to work on the container containing the text input, this is the outer view which has a style.
The style is created with this strange stylesheet create syntax and then stored in a constant which
we then in turn assign to the style property of the view or to be precise,
we assign a property of that styles constant, here
container property. In there, we actually define a layout of the container
and you already see flex one, align items and justify content.
You don't see flex direction because the default already is column and that is the layout we want
to use here.
Now flex one is nice because we want to take the full available space though what we could do if we
just want to build up our app from top to bottom with flex direction being column, we could also get
rid of flex one here and that would simply not take the full available space over the entire page but
simply take as much space as the child elements need
and therefore it wouldn't position this in the middle of the page but simply define the container width
based on the child's, therefore not taking up the full page.
So if we save it like this and we go back to our application and again, it should reload automatically,
you see that now the inputs switched up all the way to the top, though you'll also see that here on iOS,
it even went below the status bar. Some bug
and we can simply fix this by manually adding some padding to the container here, so we could add a padding
of 20. Now of course the Android element went down too because of that
but we will later in this course, in the styling section see how we can write different styles for different
platforms.
Right now let's stick to this solution, though one thing you will notice is that here if you watch closely,
it may be hard to see, on Android only the part of the input or of the container to be precise has a
white background, the background of the main app is a bit grey-ish, on iOS we don't see it because the
whole background is white by default.
The reason for this is the way we fix this, by commenting out flex one, our container doesn't take the
entire page anymore.
Now probably we want this to be the case,
so I'll comment this back in
and instead what I'll do is I'll set justify content which positions the elements on the main axis
which is from top to bottom by default because of flex direction column,
I'll set this from center to flex start to basically instruct it to start at the beginning of the page.
If I do this,
now you will see
we get the same layout as before but actually on Android, it's now white everywhere because the container
now is the full page width, full page height again
but the input is still positioned at the beginning because on the container, the wrapping container, we
say hey your child elements should be positioned at the start.
So this is how we can work with that,
let me actually increase the padding to 26 to have a little bit more,
well distance here on iOS, again we'll fix this for Android later in the course or in general, we'll
learn how we can differentiate styles.
This is how we can work with flexbox and with styling,
again we'll dive deeper into this later in the course and we'll always add new styles of course to make
things look nice.
Now one important thing I want to mention in this lecture before we quit is this stylesheet component,
this simply is the react native way of allowing you to create objects which you then can assign to the style
property of elements and where you can then point to properties of your style objects like the container
property here,
so this is a convenient way of allowing you to write stylesheets which are understood by react and which
you can use like this on a constant you store them in, on a sub-property to distribute your styles across
your components.
You can learn more about that stylesheet
of course in the docs, there if you scroll down to APIs, not to components but to APIs, you can
visit stylesheet to learn more about it.
There you see the idea is basically to give you a css stylesheet-like experience.